---
# Solar Up -- Solar Panel Object Detection

WBS Coding School || Data Science Bootcamp || Final Project

---
🛰️ 

In this project we train a YOLOv8 model to detect solar panels on satellite imagery. We implement our model in a `streamlit` app that let's you detect solar panels on satellite images - either by image upload or through an interactive map.

🛰️ 






https://github.com/sanjaboekle/solar_panel_object_detection/assets/131270458/b92ebdef-c8ed-4071-9288-79655293dfa4





## Steps

You can easily replicate our results and build your own **Solar Panel Detector** by running our scripts successively.

1. Clone this repository.
2. Run the `01_Data_Download_and_Preprocessing.ipynb` script.
3. Train the model using `02_Training_Detection_Model.ipynb`, ...
    * ... either on Google Colab, in which case you will need to upload the `kasmi_solar_detection.yaml` config file (tells YOLO where to find the data and labels) and the `kasmi_solar_detection.zip` folder created in step 2 to your Google Drive, and mount your Google Drive to Colab, ...
    * ... or locally, in which case you will need to slightly adapt the script to navigate to the training data etc. 
4. Move the downloaded model (`best.torchscript`) to the `downloaded_models` directory.
5. Run the streamlit app using the command `streamlit run 03_Streamlit_App_Detection_Model.py`.




## Content
- `01_Data_Download_and_Preprocessing.ipynb` | Data Preprocessing
- `02_Training_Detection_Model.ipynb` | Model Training
- `03_Streamlit_App_Detection_Model.py` | Streamlit App
- `kasmi_solar_detection.yaml` | YOLOv8 configuration file
- `data` | contains model training data
- `datasets` | contains train-test splitted data
- `downloaded_models` | contains trained model & training results



#### `data`

The kasmi_solar folder contains satellite images with solar panel labels that originate from the following dataset: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-023-01951-4. 

We here use the "google" picture set of the `kasmi_solar` data, because we will be working with Google Map images in our app.


#### `datasets`

This folder contains the train/test-splitted pictures and their labels (bounding boxes for detection or masks for segmentation). It separates the kasmi_solar data into a detection and a segmentation folder.
Note that the labels are in the YOLO-format. Find more info on this in the ultralytics documentation.


#### `downloaded_models`

This folder contains the models, model results and model weights generated by and downloaded from our model_training scripts (on Google Drive, see down below).



#### Detection and Segmentation

So far we have only implemented a detection model in this repository. The segmentation model training and the usage of it in the streamlit app is still on our to do list. You can thus ignore the directories for segmentation in the `data` and `datasets` folders.



## Context
This is the final project of our 4.5 month-long Data Science bootcamp with WBS Coding School.
Many thanks to WBS Coding School and to our instructors for the guidance.

If you're interested to connect, feel free to contact us via LinkedIn:

**Sanja** | https://www.linkedin.com/in/sanjaboekle/

**Moritz** | https://www.linkedin.com/in/moritz-baumann/
